# selfcareperspectives.github.io
Not enough time for self-care? Come visit our site to see myriad of self-care tips designed specifically to cater the the varying amounts of time you may have on hand!

<b>PROJECT NAME</b><br>
Self Care: Perspectives on How-To

<b>PROJECT DESCRIPTION</b>
<p>These days, we often come across many people who are so busy with the n number of things in their life that they start neglecting themselves. Self-care is a priority and this is the message we wish to spread through our page. We want to encourage people to take out time for themselves and do whatever makes them feel good and happy. We emphasize on “normalizing” the ways to self-care because often self-care is misunderstood. People think self-care is just limited to eating healthy, exercising regularly, putting nail polish or makeup etc. But NO! Self-care is very broad and could mean very different things to different people. The most uncommon of the ways – particular to oneself – are often the best ways to self-care. Hence don’t be afraid to take care of yourself in ways you find to be most effective for you, even though they might seem “weird” to others.</p>
<p>Often people say that they don’t not have enough “time” to self-care – a very common excuse. Hence, our website clearly gives user the choice to input the available time at hand and learn about the self-care tips they could engage in for that duration of time. The 3 steps of how-to are very simple and easy and aim to make self-care fun for the user so that they don’t make any excuses anymore! </p>

<b>PROCESS</b>
<p>Once we all decided on the topic (which we all felt very highly about), the first step was to choose the various self-care techniques we wish to portray. As we wanted to normalize the ways, we searched the web for innovative ways to self-care and also asked many people about how they self-care because it was important to gain an idea about the different things people engage in in order to better cater to the masses. We got a broad range of answers and shortlisted a few which we thought were unique and interesting and would go with our idea.  Since each of us decided to make one video, it was very important we divided the tips into 3 distinct steps which each one of us could follow and also divide the videos according to some criteria so that each could serve it’s own purpose while keeping the overarching idea in mind. We decided to divide according to the time people have as it seemed the most appropriate.  We then categorized each of the tips we selected into these categories.</p> 
<p>Keeping the theme in mind, we decided to play a lot with metaphors. We chose inanimate objects to play the main characters and be our guiding light to self care. We were also very specific to choose at least one unusual activity in each of the videos which could symbolize ‘normalizing the ways self-care’ – watching a plant grow, fixing a humidifier (learning a new skill), bathing in a toilet, acting like superman (your role-model), putting hair mask instead of face, or just screaming!<p>
<p>Since we were working with inanimate objects, it made the most sense to use stop-motion (something we all wanted to work with from the begining and it fit our concept of the video very well). It initially posed difficulties and was very challenging (as we had to finalize the complete scene first and then take clear shots and if the camera moved even a bit for a second, we had to start again), but as we got the hang of it, it was very fun and rewarding. We all constantly kept sending whatever shots we created for feedback and improvement and were also constantly in touch while editing the videos so that we all were on the same page and did not create videos very different from one another (so it could looks like a part of a cohesive page).</p>
<p>Once we had all our videos in place, it was time to integrate it all on a website which would put all of this together and give the bigger picture to the user. </p>

<b>REFLECTION AND EVALUATION</b>
<p>I believe the website very well establishes the theme and idea of our project and definitely talks about the message we were striving to encourage. The pastel colors just speak of ‘self-care’ and complement our topic very well.  The page has a very calming effect and this goes very well with the soothing background music we chose for our videos. I am very happy with how the videos have also turned out. They all follow the same pattern – 3 steps – clear your mind, treat yourself, and going out – which makes it very cohesive. Having them differentiated based on time, I believe, puts forth the idea that self-care can be adapted to any time you have at hand (like we just did) and that should definitely not be an excuse! The shots are particularly lively and fun with subtle humour which makes self-care even more fun and thus encouraging to the user. The idea of make yourself a DIY self-care kit also in my opinion works particularly well with the website and is like a final step to encourage the user to actually take some action. This element, along with giving user the flexibility to choose an input in the timeline engages the user more with our webpage which is definitely what we hoped for.<p>
<p>All in all, this project really captures all that we were striving to build and honestly the final product has come out much better than what I think each of us imagined. The project was really enjoyable and enriching learning experience (in terms of stop motion and video editing) and the teammates absolutely a delight to work with!</p> 
